










Health, Wellness & Support at Duke – Graduate Student Programs and Services


































Skip to content







						Graduate Student Programs and Services					


Search







Search







						Menu
					





WHO WE ARE

GSPS Directory
Career Services for Master’s Students
Career Services for PhD Students
Graduate Communications and Intercultural Programs
Student Engagement and Support


New Student Information

Welcome Fall 2024 Students
New Student Checklist
Summer Transition Series
Summer Language Intensive Communication Experience
International Student Resources
Safety and Support Resources
Employment Options


Student Life

Engineering Master’s Student Advisory Board
Engineering Graduate Student Council
PhD Plus Student Executive Board
Pratt Peers Student Support Network
Student-Led Event Planning Checklist
University-Wide Leadership Opportunities
Cultural, Racial, & Ethnic Programs and Centers
Duke Community


Safety at Duke
Health, Wellness, & Support

Health, Wellness & Support at Duke
Health and Wellness Coaching
Local & National Support Resources


Academic Resources

MEng and MEM Student Forms
MS Student Forms
Student Transfer Requests (All Programs)
CPT and OPT
MENG 540 & 570
MENG and MEM Supplemental Internship Courses
Duke Community Standard
Technology
Interview Rooms
Pratt Commonly Used Acronyms


 








Health, Wellness & Support at Duke













Duke has an established set of services that are designed to support students so that they are set up for success. Students should always feel comfortable reaching out to their program or department, as well as the Student Engagement and Support team for advice or referrals.Duke’s comprehensive health, wellness and support services include: 



Mental Health and Well-Being Supports
 







Blue Devils Care provides 24/7 mental telehealth support to all Duke students at no cost. This service provides on-demand mental health support and gives students a safe space to talk about anything at any time including anxiety, relationships, sadness, isolation and loneliness. Visit BlueDevilsCare.duke.edu. Register using your Duke email address to access your free visits.Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) helps Duke Students enhance strengths and develop abilities to successfully live, grow, and learn in their personal and academic lives. CAPS offers many services to students, including brief individual and group counseling, couples counseling and more. CAPS remains available and committed to serving students through virtual platforms. Call 919-660-1000 to make an appointment.DukeReach directs individuals to the resources available to help a student in need. DukeReach works with departments and groups across campus and in the community, including Housing, CAPS, Student Health, community health providers, and more. DukeReach provides comprehensive outreach services to identify and support students in managing all aspects of their well-being. Non-emergency concerns about a student’s health or behavior can also be reported by submitting a CARE Report. Contact DukeReach at 919-681-2455 or dukereach@duke.edu. For after-hours urgent needs, call the Dean on Call at 984-287-0300.DuWell engages students through a variety of wellness experiences across campus in an effort to manage stress and reduce anxiety while emphasizing self-care. Their Moments of Mindfulness program offers the Duke community opportunities to relax, reenergize, and recharge. Moments of Mindfulness promotes the management of stress and reduction of anxiety while prioritizing self-care and focusing on the present. Weekly activities can be found HERE.Personal Finance@Duke is a program designed to empower Duke students to make informed financial decisions by providing them with  financial management knowledge and skills necessary to navigate life events that affect everyday financial decisions, discuss issues surrounding personal finances, and plan for the future. 



Community Support Services 



Duke Office of the Ombuds offer neutral and confidential guidance on a variety of issues for all students at Duke. They listen to concerns and complaints and discuss appropriate options, assist students in resolving problems, mediate conflicts, and refer students to appropriate campus resources. Contact Keegan Cary at 919-503-0917 or ombuds@duke.edu.Duke Women’s Center provides therapeutic services to survivors of gender violence. It also provides education and training initiatives focused on preventing gender violence. The Women’s Center is an inclusive space and serves all genders and all services are confidential. Call 919-684-3897 or email: womenctr@duke.edu.Lactation Support Services are available in the Fitzpatrick Building, Hudson Hall Annex, and Wilkinson Building (along with 25 other rooms across Duke’s Campus) to support our faculty, staff, and students who are nursing young children. All lactation rooms are locked for privacy, and are available through card access to approved users with reservations. 



Food Security Programs 



Feed Every Devil allows students to donate extra Food Points to a Duke-managed Food Points bank. In turn, students experiencing food insecurity can request supplemental Food Points from the bank to go towards their balance.GPSG Community Pantry is the student-run campus pantry provides non-perishable food & goods for graduate and professional students. A valid Duke student ID is required for entry and program sign up.  



Physical Health  



Duke Recreation & Physical Education provides exceptional and diverse opportunities that promote healthy active lifestyles in a safe, inclusive environment. Find out about the different recreational facilities on-campus (gyms, pools, weight rooms), and another great way to connect with the Duke community is by joining an intramural or club team!Student Health is the primary source for a wide range of health care services, many of which are covered by the Duke student health fee. Make an appointment by calling 919-681-9355.Student Health Nutrition offers nutrition support to Duke students living or staying in North Carolina. Appointments are free; visits with a Duke Student Health Nutritionist  are covered by the Student Health fee. Make an appointment by calling 919-681-9355 or by visiting this LINK. 
















				© 2024 - Graduate Student Programs and Services			















Sites@Duke Express is powered by WordPress. Read the Sites@Duke Express
                            policies and
                            FAQs, or request help.
                        
























