










New Student Checklist – Graduate Student Programs and Services

































Skip to content







						Graduate Student Programs and Services					


Search







Search







						Menu
					





WHO WE ARE

GSPS Directory
Career Services for Master’s Students
Career Services for PhD Students
Graduate Communications and Intercultural Programs
Student Engagement and Support


New Student Information

Welcome Fall 2024 Students
New Student Checklist
Summer Transition Series
Summer Language Intensive Communication Experience
International Student Resources
Safety and Support Resources
Employment Options


Student Life

Engineering Master’s Student Advisory Board
Engineering Graduate Student Council
PhD Plus Student Executive Board
Pratt Peers Student Support Network
Student-Led Event Planning Checklist
University-Wide Leadership Opportunities
Cultural, Racial, & Ethnic Programs and Centers
Duke Community


Safety at Duke
Health, Wellness, & Support

Health, Wellness & Support at Duke
Health and Wellness Coaching
Local & National Support Resources


Academic Resources

MEng and MEM Student Forms
MS Student Forms
Student Transfer Requests (All Programs)
CPT and OPT
MENG 540 & 570
MENG and MEM Supplemental Internship Courses
Duke Community Standard
Technology
Interview Rooms
Pratt Commonly Used Acronyms


 








New Student Checklist









In order to help set you up for a successful transition, we have put together a New Student Checklist for new Pratt graduate and professional students. Click on the arrow by each task to expand the section for more information and be sure to pay very close attention to the noted deadlines! 











FALL 2024 CAMPUS STUDENTS: 










1. Accept Your Offer of Admission

Master of Engineering and Master of Engineering Management Students: Officially reserve your place by accepting the offer of admission.Admitted students in Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Engineering Management, Game Design, Design Technology & Innovation, and Financial Technology must also submit a non-refundable $600 Enrollment Deposit. Make a secure payment via Cybersource for your Duke Enrollment Deposit. Only credit card payments are accepted. Submit your Enrollment Deposit Now and then continue with the new student checklist.Master of Science and PhD Students: If you are a Master of Science or PhD student, The Graduate School requires that you accept your offer of admission  by April 15 or within 15 days of receiving your admission notification, whichever is later. For more information about the required steps, visit The Graduate School’s website or contact grad-admissions@duke.edu for assistance.







2. Activate Your NetID and Set Up Your Duke Email – when available!

You should receive a separate email from the Office of Information Technology (OIT) with instructions to set up your NetID and email alias. Your NetID is your electronic key to online resources, including your Duke email account, DukeHub (course registration/grades), MyDuke (student portal), Box cloud storage and more. Please do this as soon as you receive this email. Visit this SITE to learn how to access your Duke email account. Once you have access to your Duke email, begin the practice of checking and using this address. Your Duke email address will become the primary source for all communications from Duke. Master of Engineering and Master of Engineering Management Students: If you are a Master of Engineering or Master of Engineering Management student, you should receive these instructions from OIT after your matriculation has been processed. Contact pratt_masters@duke.edu with questions.Master of Science and PhD Students: If you are a Master of Science or PhD student, The Graduate School will not matriculate you until they have receipt of your official transcript and/or visa paperwork (if applicable). You may visit this LINK for more information or contact grad-admissions@duke.edu for assistance.







3. Submit  Visa Documents (international students) - when available!

International students requiring a visa must submit all required documents to the Pratt School of Engineering (for MEng and MEM programs) as soon as you are able! You will be contacted in a separate email about these requirements. Master of Science and PhD students must submit all required documentation to The Graduate School, visit this LINK for more information.







4. Research Local Housing Options - immediately!

CONGRATULATIONS! On behalf of the Office of Student Affairs, welcome to Duke and Durham, North Carolina. As your new home, Durham is a vibrant community with a lot to enjoy. To begin your housing search, we’ve listed below some tips, resource links, and suggestions for you. We hope you find this helpful!WHERE CAN I BEGIN MY HOUSING SEARCH?A useful search engine to find housing close to Duke’s campus is:  https://neardukeguide.com/pratt.DukeList (Duke netID required for login) allows Duke community members to post ads for both housing and roommates, as well as items for sale and services. Lancaster Commons is an apartment complex reserved entirely for Duke graduate & professional students.Duke Housing & Residence Life has limited, on-campus apartments available for rent for graduate and professional students. Please direct inquiries to housing@duke.edu.The Off Campus & Community Housing Office is here to support students who live off campus.WHERE CAN I FIND INFORMATION ABOUT THE SAFETY OF LOCAL HOUSING OPTIONS?Review the Durham Crime Statistics & Community Crime Map in advance of selecting a neighborhood, complex, or house. You can search the Community Crime Map by address.Browse apartment or neighborhood reviews (google reviews, apartmentratings.com, or connect with current Duke student residents through your program, department, or school).Ask the apartment management or landlord about safety protocols they have in-place for their residents. Ex: Is your apartment community gated? Do you utilize cameras in exterior locations? What type of crime preventative measures is your apartment complex taking?Review Duke’s emergency notification system, Duke’s safety mobile app (LiveSafe), and tips from Duke Police for personal safety.WHAT ELSE SHOULD I CONSIDER?Budget: Consider affordability. Setting a realistic budget for your expenses and housing is important. Be forewarned, the least expensive options may have downsides associated with safety, noise, or lack of amenities. Transportation: If you have a car, your off-campus housing search can include places in the broader Durham area. If you won’t have a car, consider living close to campus and understand your options for getting around:Duke bus routes – free to all studentsDuke Vans – late evening, free rides from campus to apartments/houses within 2 miles of campus.Durham & Triangle area bus routes – free with GoPassUber / Lyft – reliable ride-share in the areaBicycles, Scooters, and WalkingFurniture: Most apartments or houses are unfurnished; furnished units may cost more. Many students rent furniturefrom CORT Furniture or AFR Furniture Rental.Personal Property: Consider protecting your personal belongings with Renter’s Insurance.Amenities: Complexes in the area will offer a range of services (gated entrance, gym, computer workstations with printers, cable TV, Amazon locker pick-up, etc). Understand what is included in your monthly rent.WHAT ARE MY RIGHTS AS A TENANT?Know your rights as a tenant and the responsibilities of a landlord.The Durham NC Tenant Training Manual provides detailed information about local Landlord and Tenant responsibilities.The US Department of Housing and Urban Development also provides information about tenant protections.Disclaimer: This guide is intended for general informational purposes only. Duke University does not recommend or endorse any landlords, tenants, or rental facilities.







5. Register for Courses - opens April 3

Course registration for Master of Engineering and Master of Science students officially opens for the Fall 2024 semester on April 3.  Students enroll in courses through DukeHub. The Office of the University Registrar has a number of GUIDES to help you navigate through the registration process. Note: some of our programs recommend that you meet with your academic advisor before performing your course registration. Before taking action, you should consult with your program or department staff for further instructions. Master of Engineering Management students should NOT register for courses at this time. You will receive further instructions during the summer about your cohort placement and open enrollment dates for your elective courses. PhD students should consult with their individual department before registering for courses.







6. Submit  Immunization Form and TB Questionnaire - by June 15

All Duke students who will reside in North Carolina must comply with Duke University’s Immunization Requirements and submit the Mandatory Immunization Requirements Form and TB Screening Questionnaire by June 15.  Detailed instructions are available for all of these requirements HERE.If you are unable to complete your immunization requirements before arriving, you will be required to schedule an individual appointment to receive your immunizations on campus. Students will be withdrawn from the University 30 days after classes begin if the mandatory immunization and TB requirements have not been met.  Pratt does not monitor the submission of immunization forms nor do we know whether Student Health has received your form. If you have questions about your submission, please email the Student Health Immunization Compliance Coordinator at:  immunizations@duke.edu.  It may also be helpful to reference the Frequently Asked Questions page for answers to commonly asked questions.







7. Review Transportation and Parking Options - by July 15

If you plan to drive a car while in Durham, parking on campus is a challenge -even for staff! You may apply to purchase a parking permit HERE. Luckily there are also numerous free bus routes, biking, carpool programs, and walking options. To learn more about your parking options on campus, visit Duke’s Parking & Transportation webpage.The Duke Bus System is FREE. You may get on and off Duke buses at no cost. Duke’s GPS transit system allows real-time location data for Duke buses. Duke community members and visitors can use a computer or mobile device to track buses at any of the 113 bus stops on and around campus. Visit this website to track buses or download the TransLoc Rider app.







8. Review Student Medical Insurance Requirements - by July 15

All students are required to maintain adequate medical insurance during their enrollment at Duke.
International Students: Students on F-1 or J-1 visas are automatically enrolled in the Duke Student Medical Insurance Plan (SMIP).
Domestic Students: Domestic students can choose the SMIP or complete the waiver process if you will be covered by other health insurance.
To learn more about the SMIP Health Insurance, the following websites are available:

General Information 
Plan Benefits
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 

If you have specific questions regarding the SMIP that are not listed on the website, please send an email to insurance@studentaffairs.duke.edu or call 919-684-1481.







9. Upload Your Photo for Your Mobile DukeCard - by July 15

New students must upload a photo for their Mobile DukeCard by going to this LINK.  Photos should be  submitted before July 15.







10. Enter in Your Preferred Name and Pronouns - by July 15

The class list that professors and advisors use to address their students can be updated to include your preferred name and preferred pronouns. Preferred Name: please log into DukeHub, then click on the tab that says “My Profile.” On that page, go to “Biographical Information”. To add a preferred name, select “Add Name” and then select “Preferred” name type. Enter information for preferred name and save. A message will display indicating “Success – Preferred name was updated”. Preferred Pronouns: please log into DukeHub, then click on the tab that says “My Profile.” On that page, go to “Biographical Information”. To add gender pronouns click on the pencil icon, which will provide a drop-down of choices. You may choose one of these values. If the pronouns you use are not listed, or you use more than one set of pronouns, use the “Enter My Own” Option to share your pronouns then save. A message will display indicating “Success – Personal pronoun was updated”. 







11. Request Disability Access or Services, if necessary - by July 15

The Student Disability Access Office (SDAO) recognizesdisability as an aspect of diversity that is integral to society and to our campus community. Accessibility is an essential feature of the Duke campus, and we strive to create an inclusive community for our students. We strive to ensure that students with disabilities are provided the tools they need to fully access all aspects of student life inside and outside of the classroom.The SDAO is committed to providing educational opportunities for students with disabilities in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and the ADA Amendments Act of 2008.The first step in receiving consideration for an accommodation is to submit a request.







12. Submit Official Transcript - by August 1

All incoming engineering master’s students must submitofficial transcripts to enroll at Duke. Submit all official transcripts by August 1.MEng and MEM students MS students and PhD students (follow submission directions sent directly by the Graduate School)  







13. Familiarize Yourself with Duke Technology Resources - by August 1

There are a number of technology tools you will want to become familiar with before you arrive! Some of the most commonly used tools can be found HERE. There are also a number of software products that Duke offers for free or at a reduced price, these are available HERE. Additionally, through an agreement with Microsoft, engineering master’s students can access a suite of Microsoft Products not available to the broader Duke Community.







14. Review Duke Community Standard - by August 1

Duke University is a community dedicated to scholarship, leadership, and service and to the principles of honesty, fairness, respect, and accountability. Citizens of this community commit to reflect upon and uphold these principles in all academic and nonacademic endeavors, and to protect and promote a culture of integrity.
To uphold the Duke Community Standard:

I will not lie, cheat, or steal in my academic endeavors;
I will conduct myself honorably in all my endeavors; and 

I will act if the Standard is compromised. 

All students are required to adhere to these principles and conduct themselves in accordance with these values. We ask that you take some time to review the  Duke Community Standard by August 1.  







15. Arrive in Durham - as early as possible

The first day of Fall 2024 classes at the Pratt School of Engineering will be Monday, August 26*.It is recommended that you arrive in the area as early as possible so you can ensure that any outstanding immunizations and/or forms are complete prior to welcome/orientation activities and the start of classes. The closest airport to Duke University is Raleigh-Durham International Airport (RDU). Taxis, Uber, Lyft, and additional transportation services are all readily available from RDU. Duke is approximately 30 minutes from the airport.







16. Download your Mobile DukeCard - by August 15

Your mobile DukeCard is one of the most important tools you have while you are studying at Duke. This card is a mobile photo ID, with your name and unique ID number on it. With your mobile DukeCard, you can access academic buildings, recreational facilities, library books, parking lots, campus events, and campus photocopying. 
To download a mobile DukeCard, students must first submit a photo. After email approval for that photo is received, then students are able to download a mobile DukeCard.*

Students will not automatically receive a physical DukeCard. A Mobile DukeCard has replaced a physical card; however, those who will be working in a lab or the Medical Center and require prox access can request a physical card for the Duke Card Office.  An individual appointment is required. Click HERE to schedule. 







17. Attend New Student Orientation - August 19

 Graduate Student Programs and Services and each program/department will begin hosting New Student Orientation sessions for all incoming Fall 2024 graduate and professional students starting on Monday, August 19.  More information will be sent to you via email regarding these events in mid July.  If you are a Master of Science or PhD student, you will also hear directly from The Graduate School about additional onboarding requirements during that week.All new students should plan to be settled in the area and prepared to particiate in events by Monday, August 19.














FALL 2024 ONLINE STUDENTS: 










1. Accept Your Offer of Admission

Officially reserve your place by submitting your non-refundable $600 Enrollment Deposit. Make a secure payment via Cybersource for your Duke Enrollment Deposit. Only credit card payments are accepted. Submit your Enrollment Deposit Now and then continue with the new student checklist. 







2. Activate Your NetID and Set Up Your Duke Email – when available!

You should receive a separate email from the Office of Information Technology (OIT) with instructions to set up your NetID and email alias. Your NetID is your electronic key to online resources, including your Duke email account, DukeHub (course registration/grades), MyDuke (student portal), Box cloud storage and more. Please do this as soon as you receive the email. Visit this SITE to learn how to access your Duke email account. Once you have access to your Duke email, begin the practice of checking and using this address. Your Duke email address will become the primary source for all communications from Duke. Master of Engineering and Master of Engineering Management Students: If you are a Master of Engineering or Master of Engineering Management student, you should receive these instructions from OIT after your matriculation has been processed. Contact pratt_masters@duke.edu with questions.







3. Register for Courses - opens April 3

Course registration opens for the Fall 2024 semester on April 3.  Students enroll in courses through DukeHub. The Office of the University Registrar has a number of GUIDES to help you navigate through the registration process.Not all of our engineering master’s programs require self-enrollment and some of our programs recommend that you meet with your advisor before performing your course registration.  Before taking action, you should consult with your program or department staff for further instructions.







4. Enter in Your Preferred Name and Pronouns - by July 15

The class list that professors and advisors use to address their students can be updated to include your preferred name and preferred pronouns. Preferred Name: please log into DukeHub, then click on the tab that says “My Profile.” On that page, go to “Biographical Information”. To add a preferred name, select “Add Name” and then select “Preferred” name type. Enter information for preferred name and save. A message will display indicating “Success – Preferred name was updated”. Preferred Pronouns: please log into DukeHub, then click on the tab that says “My Profile.” On that page, go to “Biographical Information”. To add gender pronouns click on the pencil icon, which will provide a drop-down of choices. You may choose one of these values. If the pronouns you use are not listed, or you use more than one set of pronouns, use the “Enter My Own” Option to share your pronouns then save. A message will display indicating “Success – Personal pronoun was updated”. 







5. Request Disability Access or Services, if necessary - by July 15

The Student Disability Access Office (SDAO) recognizesdisability as an aspect of diversity that is integral to society and to our campus community. Accessibility is an essential feature of the Duke campus, and we strive to create an inclusive community for our students. We strive to ensure that students with disabilities are provided the tools they need to fully access all aspects of student life inside and outside of the classroom.The SDAO is committed to providing educational opportunities for students with disabilities in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and the ADA Amendments Act of 2008.The first step in receiving consideration for an accommodation is to submit a request.







6. Submit Official Transcript - by August 1

All incoming engineering master’s students must submitofficial transcripts to enroll at Duke. Submit all official transcripts by August 1.MEng and MEM students 







7. Familiarize Yourself with Duke Technology Resources - by August 1

There are a number of technology tools you will want to become familiar with before you arrive! Some of the most commonly used tools can be found HERE. There are also a number of software products that Duke offers for free or at a reduced price, these are available HERE. Additionally, through an agreement with Microsoft, engineering master’s students can access a suite of Microsoft Products not available to the broader Duke Community.







8. Review Duke Community Standard - by August 1

Duke University is a community dedicated to scholarship, leadership, and service and to the principles of honesty, fairness, respect, and accountability. Citizens of this community commit to reflect upon and uphold these principles in all academic and nonacademic endeavors, and to protect and promote a culture of integrity.
To uphold the Duke Community Standard:

I will not lie, cheat, or steal in my academic endeavors;
I will conduct myself honorably in all my endeavors; and 

I will act if the Standard is compromised. 

All students are required to adhere to these principles and conduct themselves in accordance with these values. We ask that you take some time to review the  Duke Community Standard by August 1.  







9. Attend New Student Orientation - Varies by Program

All students who are part of one of our online programs will hear directly from their program about new student orientation dates and/or residency information. 



























				© 2024 - Graduate Student Programs and Services			















Sites@Duke Express is powered by WordPress. Read the Sites@Duke Express
                            policies and
                            FAQs, or request help.
                        
























