










Safety at Duke – Graduate Student Programs and Services






























Skip to content







						Graduate Student Programs and Services					


Search







Search







						Menu
					





WHO WE ARE

GSPS Directory
Career Services for Master’s Students
Career Services for PhD Students
Graduate Communications and Intercultural Programs
Student Engagement and Support


New Student Information

Welcome Fall 2024 Students
New Student Checklist
Summer Transition Series
Summer Language Intensive Communication Experience
International Student Resources
Safety and Support Resources
Employment Options


Student Life

Engineering Master’s Student Advisory Board
Engineering Graduate Student Council
PhD Plus Student Executive Board
Pratt Peers Student Support Network
Student-Led Event Planning Checklist
University-Wide Leadership Opportunities
Cultural, Racial, & Ethnic Programs and Centers
Duke Community


Safety at Duke
Health, Wellness, & Support

Health, Wellness & Support at Duke
Health and Wellness Coaching
Local & National Support Resources


Academic Resources

MEng and MEM Student Forms
MS Student Forms
Student Transfer Requests (All Programs)
CPT and OPT
MENG 540 & 570
MENG and MEM Supplemental Internship Courses
Duke Community Standard
Technology
Interview Rooms
Pratt Commonly Used Acronyms


 








Safety at Duke


Emergency Notifications
Duke has several ways to notify students in a campus emergency such as text messaging, email, and outdoor sirens. All members of our community are automatically enrolled to support overall safety. For more information, please visit: http://emergency.duke.edu/notified.
LiveSafe
Duke partners with the free LiveSafe app and we encourage all members to download this helpful safety tool immediately. LiveSafe allows you to communicate through the touch of a button to Duke University Police, which monitors messages 24/7. There are also a number of other valuable features:

The “SafeWalk” feature allows students to virtually walk family, friends, and colleagues home or to another destination by monitoring their location on a real-time map.
The “Emergency Options” feature allows students to call or message Duke University Police. They’ll use your location to send help immediately.
The “Report Suspicious Activity” feature allows students to report if they see something or have a concern.
The “Report a Concern” feature allows students to report a safety hazard or other issue.
The “Track Campus Buses” feature allows students to check the real-time location of campus buses.
The “Request a Duke Van” feature allows students to receive free, on-demand transportation between 6:00 PM and 2:00 AM, Monday through Saturday, when/where Duke Transit is not in service.
The “Duke Resources” feature allows students to access emergency procedures and support services.

Download the LiveSafe app, become familiar with it by watching this video, and visit emergency.duke.edu for more information.
Duke Police
The Duke University Campus Police Department provides 24-hour police and security services to Duke’s academic campus and hospital.

For emergencies, call 911.
For non-emergencies, call (919) 684-2444 or visit this link for more information about Duke Police and the services they provide. 

Women’s Center
The Women’s Center provides therapeutic services to survivors of gender violence,  which includes sexual violence, intimate partner violence, stalking, and sexual harassment. The Women’s Center is an inclusive space and serves all genders.
If you are a student at Duke University (of any gender) and are a victim-survivor of gender violence, contact the Women’s Center about their confidential services.

Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm: Call 919-684-3897, email WCHelp@duke.edu, or walk in no appointment necessary.
After-hours, weekends, holidays: Call 919-970-2108 or email WCHelp@duke.edu.

Duke Office of the Ombuds
Duke Office of the Ombuds offer offer neutral and confidential guidance on a variety of issues for all students at Duke. They listen to concerns and complaints and discuss appropriate options, assist students in resolving problems, mediate conflicts, and refer students to appropriate campus resources. Contact Keegan Cary at 919-503-0917 or ombuds@duke.edu.
Center For Multicultural Affairs
Duke is a diverse community which is one of many reasons why students matriculate to Duke.  We value difference greatly but recognize that the vast diversity of our student population presents equal opportunities for understanding as well as misunderstanding.  As one of many campus resources available, the Center for Multicultural Affairs would like to facilitate your reporting bias incidents.  We are here to support you and ensure that you have the best possible experience while at Duke.
To report a bias incident, click here and to speak with someone directly, call 919-684-6756.










				© 2024 - Graduate Student Programs and Services			















Sites@Duke Express is powered by WordPress. Read the Sites@Duke Express
                            policies and
                            FAQs, or request help.
                        
















